#labels Featured
= Introduction =

*LuaLB* is an open-source parallelizable [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lattice_Boltzmann_methods lattice Boltzmann simulation] for computational fluid dynamics with [http://lua.org Lua scripting]. It is designed to work on both a PC and Parallel Computers (with MPI). It was written in C and binded with Lua for easy of usage. It includes a simple 2D graphics with PNG. For a large simulation like 3D system, you can store file in HDF5 format. 


= System requirements =

    * Linux with  or Windows ([http://www.cygwin.com/ Cygwin])
    * GCC compatible compiler
    * [http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/ HDF5 1.6.x]
    * [http://www.lua.org/ Lua 5.0.x] 
    * [http://www.libpng.org/pub/png/libpng.html libpng] (optional for graphics)
    * [http://www.swig.org/ SWIG >= 1.3.31] ( optional for generating wrapper files)
    * [http://www-unix.mcs.anl.gov/mpi/mpich1/ MPICH] (optional for parallel version)

= Building for a PC =

If you are installing the software packages in the standard directory (i.e. /usr/local), typically, the compiling source code process are following:

{{{
$ cd /path/to/lualb
$ ./configure 
$ make
$ make install 
}}}

If you are installing the software packages in non-standard directory (i.e. your home directory), you need to specify software location as following:

{{{
$ cd /path/to/lualb
$ export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/path/to/local/lib
$ ./configure --prefix=/path/to/your_dir --with-hdf5=/path/to/hdf5 --with-lua5=/path/to/lua5
$ make
$ make install 
}}}

= Building for parallel computers =

To build for parallel version, you need to install [http://www-unix.mcs.anl.gov/mpi/mpich1/ MPICH] and [http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/ HDF5] with the MPI supported (--enable-parallel option to the HDF5 configure script). The building precess for parallel version is similar to on a PC following except you need to specify --enable-mpi options. The building instructions are following:

{{{
$ cd /path/to/lualb
$ CC=/path/to/bin/mpicc ./configure --enable-mpi --prefix=/path/to/your_dir --with-hdf5=/path/to/hdf5 --with-lua5=/path/to/lua5
$ make
$ make install
}}}

= Running example scripts =

Ther are simple scripts in lualb/examples/ for testing. To run the scripts, please follow this instruction:

{{{
$ cd /path/to/lualb/examples
$ ../path/to/lualb script_files.lua (on a PC)
$ /path/to/mpich/bin/mpirun -np 4 ../src/lua/lualb script_files.lua (for parallel version) 
}}}

= Generating wrapper files = 

You may want to generate the lua wrapper code with SWIG. Please follow this instruction:

{{{
$ cd gridlb-x.x.xx/src/lua
# for a PC version
$ swig -lua -DLB_ENABLE_RGB lb-lua.i
# for parallel version
$ swig -lua -DLB_ENABLE_RGB -DLB_ENABLE_MPI -o lb-lua_wrap-mpi.c lb-lua.i

Where -Dxxx are optionals:
      -DLB_ENABLE_RGB = to enable 2D RGB graphics, need libpng.
      -DLB_ENABLE_MPI = to enable parallel version with MPI, need MPICH. 
}}}